well Israel has said that it's preparing
to evacuate Palestinians from the
southern gazen city of Rafa and launch
its Long awaited offensive there the
Israeli government claims that the bulk
of hamas's remaining forces are hiding
out in Rafa the islamist militant group
Hamas carried out the October 7th Terror
attacks that triggered the war over a
million internally displaced gazin are
now living in Rafa media Reports say
Israel has erected 4 ,000 tents to
accommodate those who will be forced to
move again once it begins its assault
but this has yet to be officially
confirmed satellite images show
collections of tents that were not there
earlier this
month and let's pick up on that with our
correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem Rebecca there are reports that
Israel is now planning to carry out an
offensive in Rafa in stages does that
mean Israel is scaling back at original
plan for a fullscale
offensive that's very difficult to say
Israel not giving away exactly what they
plan to do but it is indeed all
indications point to Israel pushing
ahead with its planed offensive of Rafa
they've said so themselves yesterday the
Israeli military confirmed that the at
least the two battalions two Reserve
battalions that were called up to
prepare for this imminent offensive that
they were indeed ready and they were
just waiting for a political green line
night there are also reports yesterday
that some very senior Israeli officials
were in Egypt to talk to their Egyptian
counterparts about this planned
offensive obviously ra Rafa's proximity
to the Egyptian border makes it slightly
different to some of the other offensive
we've seen in Gaza so far uh and so they
were reportedly there to discuss their
plans with the Egyptian authorities um
when you talk about this phased plan
that is what we're hearing although as I
reiterate I'll reiterate that we don't
have confirmation from Israel exactly
what their plans are but this is what
we're hearing that there is a kind of
planned phase we know that the US have
been putting on pressure for weeks
particularly but also others including
Germany uh to try to prevent the worst
of a humanitarian catastrophe that would
come with going in to in a into a
rougher in a ground offensive with more
than a million people Sheltering there
uh so it does certainly appear and
that's what we're hearing that this
phased uh this phased you know plan phas
bed offensive is to try to evacuate many
of the civilians that are there we're
hearing that it could take some weeks so
though this offensive is due to begin is
largely expected it could take some
weeks yet Terry now satellite images are
circulating that show new tent
encampments in southern Gaza would those
tents Rebecca be enough to accommodate
an evacuation of
Rafa well we think we talking around
about 40,000 tents that's because we've
heard that Israel have procured 40,000
tents they haven't uh given any
acknowledgement or they haven't
commented on whether or not these tent
encaps that we're seeing uh via the
satellite imagery is is their work we're
also getting reports that they're being
erected by Egyptians in the UAE uh but
of course you know with the the approval
and the you know coordination of the
Israelis um you know we're talking about
40,000 T so far we're talking about a
million or more than a million people in
Rafa um I'll leave you to do the maths
on that one I don't think we're going to
see a full evacuation of Rafa but also
we're getting a lot of reports on the
ground that people civilians who were
just exhausted from having moved
sometimes up to five six other times in
as they gradually have come down the
strip from the north being evacuated
into various different positions that
they're just exhausted and they simply
you know we've heard from so many people
saying that they willing to just die in
rougher that they don't want to evacuate
anymore so we are hearing that this is
going to be a slightly different
offensive than the ones that we've seen
perhaps more targeted in order to try to
comply by those Us and other Allied
demands uh to not um cause such a
humanitarian catastrophe and to try to
keep Cen casualties to a minimum but as
I say you know this could take some
weeks we are talking about more than a
million people uh and just where they're
all going to go really remains to be
seen Terry Rebecca thank you very much
as always our correspondent Rebecca
ritters there in Jerusalem